
                                extractseq 
                                      
   
   
Function

   Extract regions from a sequence
   
Description

   extractseq allows you to specify one or more regions of a sequence to
   extract sub-sequences from to build up a contiguous resulting
   sequence.
   
   This is modelled on the cell's process of splicing out exons from
   mRNA, but the program is generally applicable to any cutting and
   splicing or editing operation on a single sequence.
   
   extractseq reads in a sequence and a set of regions of that sequence
   as specified by pairs of start and end positions (either on the
   command-line or contained in a file) and writes out the specified
   regions of the input sequence in the order in which they have been
   specified. Thus, if the sequence "AAAGGGTTT" has been input and the
   regions: "7-9, 3-4" have been specified, then the output sequence will
   be: "TTTAG".
   
Usage

   Here is a sample session with extractseq
   
   Extract the region from position 10 to 20:
   
   
% extractseq tembl:hsfau result.seq -regions '10-20'
Extract regions from a sequence

   Go to the input files for this example
   Go to the output files for this example
   
   Example 2
   
   Extract the regions 10 to 20, 30 to 45, 533 to 537:
   
   
% extractseq tembl:hsfau1 result2.seq -regions '10-20 30-45 533-537'
Extract regions from a sequence

   Go to the input files for this example
   Go to the output files for this example
   
   Example 3
   
   Extract the regions 782-856, 951-1095, 1557-1612 and 1787-1912:
   

% extractseq tembl:hsfau1 -reg "782..856,951..1095,1557..1612,1787..1912" stdou
t
Extract regions from a sequence

>HSFAU1 X65921.1 H.sapiens fau 1 gene
atgcagctctttgtccgcgcccaggagctacacaccttcgaggtgaccggccaggaaacg
gtcgcccagatcaaggctcatgtagcctcactggagggcattgccccggaagatcaagtc
gtgctcctggcaggcgcgcccctggaggatgaggccactctgggccagtgcggggtggag
gccctgactaccctggaagtagcaggccgcatgcttggaggtaaagtccatggttccctg
gcccgtgctggaaaagtgagaggtcagactcctaaggtggccaaacaggagaagaagaag
aagaagacaggtcgggctaagcggcggatgcagtacaaccggcgctttgtcaacgttgtg
cccacctttggcaagaagaagggccccaatgccaactcttaa
   
   Example 4
   
   Extract the regions 782-856, 951-1095, 1557-1612 and 1787-1912 all to
   separate output sequences:
   

% extractseq tembl:hsfau1 -reg "782..856,951..1095,1557..1612,1787..1912" stdou
t -separate
Extract regions from a sequence

>HSFAU1_782_856 H.sapiens fau 1 gene
atgcagctctttgtccgcgcccaggagctacacaccttcgaggtgaccggccaggaaacg
gtcgcccagatcaag
>HSFAU1_951_1095 H.sapiens fau 1 gene
gctcatgtagcctcactggagggcattgccccggaagatcaagtcgtgctcctggcaggc
gcgcccctggaggatgaggccactctgggccagtgcggggtggaggccctgactaccctg
gaagtagcaggccgcatgcttggag
>HSFAU1_1557_1612 H.sapiens fau 1 gene
gtaaagtccatggttccctggcccgtgctggaaaagtgagaggtcagactcctaag
>HSFAU1_1787_1912 H.sapiens fau 1 gene
gtggccaaacaggagaagaagaagaagaagacaggtcgggctaagcggcggatgcagtac
aaccggcgctttgtcaacgttgtgcccacctttggcaagaagaagggccccaatgccaac
tcttaa
   
Command line arguments

   Mandatory qualifiers:
  [-sequence]          sequence   Sequence USA
   -regions            range      Regions to extract.
                                  A set of regions is specified by a set of
                                  pairs of positions.
                                  The positions are integers.
                                  They are separated by any non-digit,
                                  non-alpha character.
                                  Examples of region specifications are:
                                  24-45, 56-78
                                  1:45, 67=99;765..888
                                  1,5,8,10,23,45,57,99
  [-outseq]            seqoutall  Output sequence(s) USA

   Optional qualifiers:
   -separate           boolean    If this is set true then each specified
                                  region is written out as a separate
                                  sequence. The name of the sequence is
                                  created from the name of the original
                                  sequence with the start and end positions of
                                  the range appended with underscore
                                  characters between them, eg: XYZ region 2 to
                                  34 is written as: XYZ_2_34

   Advanced qualifiers: (none)
   General qualifiers:
  -help                boolean    Report command line options. More
                                  information on associated and general
                                  qualifiers can be found with -help -verbose
   

   Mandatory qualifiers Allowed values Default
   [-sequence]
   (Parameter 1) Sequence USA Readable sequence Required
   -regions Regions to extract. A set of regions is specified by a set of
   pairs of positions. The positions are integers. They are separated by
   any non-digit, non-alpha character. Examples of region specifications
   are: 24-45, 56-78 1:45, 67=99;765..888 1,5,8,10,23,45,57,99 Sequence
   range Whole sequence
   [-outseq]
   (Parameter 2) Output sequence(s) USA Writeable sequence(s)
   <sequence>.format
   Optional qualifiers Allowed values Default
   -separate If this is set true then each specified region is written
   out as a separate sequence. The name of the sequence is created from
   the name of the original sequence with the start and end positions of
   the range appended with underscore characters between them, eg: XYZ
   region 2 to 34 is written as: XYZ_2_34 Boolean value Yes/No No
   Advanced qualifiers Allowed values Default
   (none)
   
Input file format

   extractseq reads a normal sequence USA.
   
  Input files for usage example
  
   'tembl:hsfau' is a sequence entry in the example nucleic acid database
   'tembl'
   
  Database entry: tembl:hsfau
  
>HSFAU X65923.1 H.sapiens fau mRNA
ttcctctttctcgactccatcttcgcggtagctgggaccgccgttcagtcgccaatatgc
agctctttgtccgcgcccaggagctacacaccttcgaggtgaccggccaggaaacggtcg
cccagatcaaggctcatgtagcctcactggagggcattgccccggaagatcaagtcgtgc
tcctggcaggcgcgcccctggaggatgaggccactctgggccagtgcggggtggaggccc
tgactaccctggaagtagcaggccgcatgcttggaggtaaagttcatggttccctggccc
gtgctggaaaagtgagaggtcagactcctaaggtggccaaacaggagaagaagaagaaga
agacaggtcgggctaagcggcggatgcagtacaaccggcgctttgtcaacgttgtgccca
cctttggcaagaagaagggccccaatgccaactcttaagtcttttgtaattctggctttc
tctaataaaaaagccacttagttcagtcaaaaaaaaaa
   
  Input files for usage example 2
  
  Database entry: tembl:hsfau1
  
>HSFAU1 X65921.1 H.sapiens fau 1 gene
ctaccattttccctctcgattctatatgtacactcgggacaagttctcctgatcgaaaac
ggcaaaactaaggccccaagtaggaatgccttagttttcggggttaacaatgattaacac
tgagcctcacacccacgcgatgccctcagctcctcgctcagcgctctcaccaacagccgt
agcccgcagccccgctggacaccggttctccatccccgcagcgtagcccggaacatggta
gctgccatctttacctgctacgccagccttctgtgcgcgcaactgtctggtcccgccccg
tcctgcgcgagctgctgcccaggcaggttcgccggtgcgagcgtaaaggggcggagctag
gactgccttgggcggtacaaatagcagggaaccgcgcggtcgctcagcagtgacgtgaca
cgcagcccacggtctgtactgacgcgccctcgcttcttcctctttctcgactccatcttc
gcggtagctgggaccgccgttcaggtaagaatggggccttggctggatccgaagggcttg
tagcaggttggctgcggggtcagaaggcgcggggggaaccgaagaacggggcctgctccg
tggccctgctccagtccctatccgaactccttgggaggcactggccttccgcacgtgagc
cgccgcgaccaccatcccgtcgcgatcgtttctggaccgctttccactcccaaatctcct
ttatcccagagcatttcttggcttctcttacaagccgtcttttctttactcagtcgccaa
tatgcagctctttgtccgcgcccaggagctacacaccttcgaggtgaccggccaggaaac
ggtcgcccagatcaaggtaaggctgcttggtgcgccctgggttccattttcttgtgctct
tcactctcgcggcccgagggaacgcttacgagccttatctttccctgtaggctcatgtag
cctcactggagggcattgccccggaagatcaagtcgtgctcctggcaggcgcgcccctgg
aggatgaggccactctgggccagtgcggggtggaggccctgactaccctggaagtagcag
gccgcatgcttggaggtgagtgagagaggaatgttctttgaagtaccggtaagcgtctag
tgagtgtggggtgcatagtcctgacagctgagtgtcacacctatggtaatagagtacttc
tcactgtcttcagttcagagtgattcttcctgtttacatccctcatgttgaacacagacg
tccatgggagactgagccagagtgtagttgtatttcagtcacatcacgagatcctagtct
ggttatcagcttccacactaaaaattaggtcagaccaggccccaaagtgctctataaatt
agaagctggaagatcctgaaatgaaacttaagatttcaaggtcaaatatctgcaactttg
ttctcattacctattgggcgcagcttctctttaaaggcttgaattgagaaaagaggggtt
ctgctgggtggcaccttcttgctcttacctgctggtgccttcctttcccactacaggtaa
agtccatggttccctggcccgtgctggaaaagtgagaggtcagactcctaaggtgagtga
gagtattagtggtcatggtgttaggactttttttcctttcacagctaaaccaagtccctg
ggctcttactcggtttgccttctccctccctggagatgagcctgagggaagggatgctag
gtgtggaagacaggaaccagggcctgattaaccttcccttctccaggtggccaaacagga
gaagaagaagaagaagacaggtcgggctaagcggcggatgcagtacaaccggcgctttgt
caacgttgtgcccacctttggcaagaagaagggccccaatgccaactcttaagtcttttg
taattctggctttctctaataaaaaagccacttagttcagtcatcgcattgtttcatctt
tacttgcaaggcctcagggagaggtgtgcttctcgg
   
   You can specifiy a file of ranges to extract by giving the '-regions'
   qualifier the value '@' followed by the name of the file containing
   the ranges. (eg: '-regions @myfile').
   
   The format of the range file is:
     * Comment lines start with '#' in the first column.
     * Comment lines and blank lines are ignored.
     * The line may start with white-space.
     * There are two positive (integer) numbers per line separated by one
       or more space or TAB characters.
     * The second number must be greater or equal to the first number.
     * There can be optional text after the two numbers to annotate the
       line.
     * White-space before or after the text is removed.
       
   An example range file is:

# this is my set of ranges
12   23
 4   5       this is like 12-23, but smaller
67   10348   interesting region

Output file format

  Output files for usage example
  
  File: result.seq
  
>HSFAU X65923.1 H.sapiens fau mRNA
ctcgactccat
   
  Output files for usage example 2
  
  File: result2.seq
  
>HSFAU1 X65921.1 H.sapiens fau 1 gene
tccctctcgatacactcgggacaagttagggc
   
   The output is a normal sequence file.
   
   If the option '-separate' is used then each specified region is
   written to the output file as a separate sequence. The name of the
   sequence is created from the name of the original sequence with the
   start and end positions of the range appended with underscore
   characters between them,
   
   For example: "XYZ region 2 to 34" is written as: "XYZ_2_34"
   
Data files

   None.
   
Notes

   None.
   
References

   None.
   
Warnings

   None.
   
Diagnostic Error Messages

   Several warning messages about malformed region specifications:
     * Non-digit found in region ...
     * Unpaired start of a region found in ...
     * Non-digit found in region ...
     * The start of a pair of region positions must be smaller than the
       end in ...
       
Exit status

   It exits with status 0, unless a region is badly constructed.
   
Known bugs

   None noted.
   
See also

   Program name                          Description
   biosed       Replace or delete sequence sections
   cutseq       Removes a specified section from a sequence
   degapseq     Removes gap characters from sequences
   descseq      Alter the name or description of a sequence
   entret       Reads and writes (returns) flatfile entries
   extractfeat  Extract features from a sequence
   listor       Writes a list file of the logical OR of two sets of sequences
   maskfeat     Mask off features of a sequence
   maskseq      Mask off regions of a sequence
   newseq       Type in a short new sequence
   noreturn     Removes carriage return from ASCII files
   notseq       Excludes a set of sequences and writes out the remaining ones
   nthseq       Writes one sequence from a multiple set of sequences
   pasteseq     Insert one sequence into another
   revseq       Reverse and complement a sequence
   seqret       Reads and writes (returns) sequences
   seqretsplit  Reads and writes (returns) sequences in individual files
   skipseq      Reads and writes (returns) sequences, skipping the first few
   splitter     Split a sequence into (overlapping) smaller sequences
   swissparse   Retrieves sequences from swissprot using keyword search
   trimest      Trim poly-A tails off EST sequences
   trimseq      Trim ambiguous bits off the ends of sequences
   union        Reads sequence fragments and builds one sequence
   vectorstrip  Strips out DNA between a pair of vector sequences
   yank         Reads a sequence range, appends the full USA to a list file
   
Author(s)

   This application was written by Gary Williams
   (gwilliam@hgmp.mrc.ac.uk)
   
History

   Written (2000) - Gary Williams
   
Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scripts.
   
Comments
