
                                  fraggle 



Function

   [an error occurred while processing this directive]

Description

   This program is part of a suite of EMBOSS applications that directly
   or indirectly make use of the protein structure databases pdb and
   scop. This program is part of an experimental analysis pipeline
   described in an accompanying document. We provide the software in the
   hope that it will be useful. The applications were designed for
   specific research purposes and may not be useful or reliable in
   contexts other than the described pipeline. The development of the
   suite was coordinated by Jon Ison to whom enquiries and bug reports
   should be sent (email jison@hgmp.mrc.ac.uk).

   Fragmentary protein sequences occur in the sequence databases but do
   not have particular biological significance. Certain analyses will be
   distorted if fragmentary sequences are not filtered from the dataset.
   fraggle reads scop hits files and writes new scop hits file in which
   sequences deemed to be fragments are ommitted.

   Fraggle reads a directory of scop hits files and for each individual
   file writes a new scop hits file in which sequence hits deemed to be
   fragments have been removed. The base names of the output files are
   the same as the input files. The paths and file extensions for the
   scop hits files (input and output) are specified by the user.

Algorithm

   Fraggle first determines the median length of all the sequences in the
   input file, then discards any hit sequences which are not within a
   threshold percentage of the median length. The remaining sequences are
   written to the output file.

Usage

Command line arguments

   [an error occurred while processing this directive]

   [an error occurred while processing this directive]

Input file format

   fraggle reads any normal sequence USAs.

   The format of the scop hits file is described in seqsearch

Output file format

   The format of the scop hits file is described in seqsearch

Data files

   None.

Notes

   None.

References

   None.

Warnings

   None.

Diagnostic Error Messages

   None.

Exit status

   It always exits with status 0.

Known bugs

   None. [an error occurred while processing this directive]

   A 'scop hits file' contains sequence relatives (hits) to a single scop
   family found from a psiblast search of a sequence database. The files
   are generated by seqsearch and are in embl-like format. scop hits
   files are used by seqsort.

Author(s)

   Jon Ison (jison © rfcgr.mrc.ac.uk)
   MRC Rosalind Franklin Centre for Genomics Research Wellcome Trust
   Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, CB10 1SB, UK

History

   Written (2003) - Jon Ison

Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scripts.
