
                                  hmmgen 



Function

   [an error occurred while processing this directive]

Description

   This program is part of a suite of EMBOSS applications that directly
   or indirectly make use of the protein structure databases pdb and
   scop. This program is part of an experimental analysis pipeline
   described in an accompanying document. We provide the software in the
   hope that it will be useful. The applications were designed for
   specific research purposes and may not be useful or reliable in
   contexts other than the described pipeline. The development of the
   suite was coordinated by Jon Ison to whom enquiries and bug reports
   should be sent (email jison@hgmp.mrc.ac.uk).

   hmmgen provides a convenient means to generate hidden Markov models
   for scop families. The HMMs are descriptive of the family and can be
   used to identify sequence relatives of the family.

   hmmgen reads a directory of scop family alignments file and generates
   a hidden Markov model for each alignment by using the HMMER package.
   The scop Sunid (an integer) of a family will be used as the base name
   for its hmm file. The paths and extensions for the alignment (input)
   and hmm (output) files are provided by the user.

Algorithm

   Contact the author

Usage

Command line arguments

   [an error occurred while processing this directive]

   [an error occurred while processing this directive]

Input file format

   hmmgen reads any normal sequence USAs.

   The format of the scop alignment file is described in scopalign

Output file format

   The format of the hmm file is described in the HMMER documentation.

Data files

   None.

Notes

   None.

References

   None.

Warnings

   None.

Diagnostic Error Messages

   None.

Exit status

   It always exits with status 0.

Known bugs

   None. [an error occurred while processing this directive] A 'scop
   family alignment file' contains a sequence alignment of domains
   belonging to the same scop family. The file is in embl-like format and
   is annotated with records describing the SCOP classification of the
   family. A scop family alignment file generatd by scopalign will
   contain a structure- based sequence alignment of domains of known
   structure only. Such alignments can be extended with sequence
   relatives (of unknown structure) to the family in question by using
   seqalign.

   The HMM output file is used by modelscan.

Author(s)

   Jon Ison (jison © rfcgr.mrc.ac.uk)
   MRC Rosalind Franklin Centre for Genomics Research Wellcome Trust
   Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, CB10 1SB, UK

   Ranjeeva Ranasinghe (rranasin © hgmp.mrc.ac.uk)
   HGMP-RC, Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SB, UK

History

   Written (2003) - Jon Ison & Ranjeeva Ranasinghe

Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scripts.
