
                                 interface 



Function

   [an error occurred while processing this directive]

Description

   This program is part of a suite of EMBOSS applications that directly
   or indirectly make use of the protein structure databases pdb and
   scop. This program is part of an experimental analysis pipeline
   described in an accompanying document. We provide the software in the
   hope that it will be useful. The applications were designed for
   specific research purposes and may not be useful or reliable in
   contexts other than the described pipeline. The development of the
   suite was coordinated by Jon Ison to whom enquiries and bug reports
   should be sent (email jison@hgmp.mrc.ac.uk).

   Knowledge of the physical contacts that amino acid residues in two
   different polypeptide chains of a protein make with one another is
   required for several different analyses. interface calculates
   inter-chain residue-residue contact data from clean protein coordinate
   files.

   interface reads a protein coordinate file and writes a file of
   inter-chain residue-residue contact data in embl-like format. The file
   contains residue contact data for all pairs of chains in each model in
   the coordinate file. The input and output files are specified by the
   user. A log file is also written.

Algorithm

   Contact between two residues is defined as when the van der Waals
   surface of any atom of the first residue comes within the threshold
   contact distance of the van der Waals surface of any atom of the
   second residue. The threshold contact distance is a user-defined
   distance with a default value of 1 Angstrom.

Usage

Command line arguments

   [an error occurred while processing this directive]

   [an error occurred while processing this directive]

Input file format

   interface reads any normal sequence USAs.

   The format of the clean protein coordinate file is described in
   pdbparse

Output file format

   The embl-like format used for the contact files (below) uses the
   following records:

   (1) ID - the 4-character PDB identifier code.

   (2) DE - bibliographic information. The text "Residue-residue contact
   data" is always given.

   (3) EX - experimental information. The value of the threshold contact
   distance is given as a floating point number after 'THRESH'. The
   number of models and number of polypeptide chains are given after
   'NMOD' and 'NCHA' respectively. domain coordinate files a 1 is always
   given. Following the EX record, the file will have a section
   containing a PA, IN and SM records (see below) for each chain pair.
   The sections for each chain pair of a model are given after the MO
   record.

   (4) MO - model number. The number given in brackets after this record
   indicates the start of a section of model-specific data.

   (5) PA - chain pair number. The numbers given either side of the ':'
   after this record indicate the start of a section of chain
   pair-specific data.

   (6) IN - chain specific data. The characters given after ID1 and ID2
   are the PDB chain identifiers for the pair taken from the input file,
   (a '.` given in cases where a chain identifier was not specified in
   the original pdb file). The number of amino acid residues comprising
   each chain is given after NR1 and NR2 respectively. The number of
   residue-residue contacts is given after NSMCON.

   (7) SM - Line of residue contact data. Pairs of amino acid identifiers
   and residue numbers are delimited by a ';'. Residue numbers are taken
   from the clean coordinate file and give a correct index into the
   sequence (i.e. they are not necessarily the same as the original pdb
   file). The first residue belongs to the first partner of the
   chain-pair, the second residue belongs to the second partner.

   (8) XX - used for spacing.

   (9) // - given on the last line of the file only.

   Note - SM records are used for contacts between either either
   side-chain or main-chain atoms as defined above. In a future
   implementation, SS will be used for side-chain only contacts, MM will
   be used for main-chain only contacts, and there will probably be
   several other forms of contact too.

   Excerpt from interface output file

ID   2hhb
XX
DE   Residue-residue side-chain contact data
XX
EX   THRESH 1.0; IGNORE 20.0; NMOD 1; NCHA 4;
XX
MO   [1]
XX
PA   1:2
XX
IN   ID1 A; ID2 B; NR1 141; NR2 146; NSMCON 48;
XX
SM   GLU 30 ; PRO 124
SM   ARG 31 ; PHE 122
SM   ARG 31 ; THR 123
SM   ARG 31 ; PRO 124
SM   ARG 31 ; GLN 127
SM   LEU 34 ; PRO 124
SM   LEU 34 ; PRO 125
**
< data ommitted for clarity >
**
SM   ALA 123 ; VAL 34
SM   ASP 126 ; VAL 34
SM   ASP 126 ; TYR 35
XX
PA   1:3
XX
IN   ID1 A; ID2 C; NR1 141; NR2 141; NSMCON 3;
XX
SM   ASP 126 ; ARG 141
SM   LYS 127 ; ARG 141
SM   ALA 130 ; ARG 141
XX
PA   1:4
XX
IN   ID1 A; ID2 D; NR1 141; NR2 146; NSMCON 25;
XX
SM   PRO 37 ; HIS 146
**
< data ommitted for clarity >
**
SM   ASP 126 ; VAL 34
SM   ASP 126 ; TYR 35
XX
//

Data files

   EMBOSS data files are distributed with the application and stored in
   the standard EMBOSS data directory, which is defined by the EMBOSS
   environment variable EMBOSS_DATA.

   To see the available EMBOSS data files, run:

% embossdata -showall

   To fetch one of the data files (for example 'Exxx.dat') into your
   current directory for you to inspect or modify, run:

% embossdata -fetch -file Exxx.dat

   Users can provide their own data files in their own directories.
   Project specific files can be put in the current directory, or for
   tidier directory listings in a subdirectory called ".embossdata".
   Files for all EMBOSS runs can be put in the user's home directory, or
   again in a subdirectory called ".embossdata".

   The directories are searched in the following order:
     * . (your current directory)
     * .embossdata (under your current directory)
     * ~/ (your home directory)
     * ~/.embossdata

   contacts uses a data file containing van der Waals radii for atoms in
   proteins. The file Evdw.dat is such a data file and is part of the
   emboss distribution.

Notes

   None.

References

   None.

Warnings

   None.

Diagnostic Error Messages

   interface generates a log file an excerpt of which is shown below. If
   there is a problem in processing a coordinate file, three lines
   containing the record '//', the pdb identifier code and an error
   message respectively are written. The text 'WARN file open error
   filename', 'ERROR file read error filename' or 'ERROR file write error
   filename ' will be reported when an error was encountered during a
   file open, read or write respectively. Various other error messages
   may also be given (in case of difficulty email Jon Ison,
   jison@hgmp.mrc.ac.uk).

   Excerpt of log file

//
DS002__
WARN  Could not open for reading cpdb file s002.pxyz
//

Exit status

   It always exits with status 0.

Known bugs

   None. [an error occurred while processing this directive]

   A 'protein coordinate file' contains protein coordinate and other data
   extracted from a single pdb file. The files, generated by pdbparse,
   are in embl-like format and contain 'cleaned-up' data that is
   self-consistent and error-corrected.

Author(s)

   Jon Ison (jison © rfcgr.mrc.ac.uk)
   MRC Rosalind Franklin Centre for Genomics Research Wellcome Trust
   Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, CB10 1SB, UK

History

   Written (2003) - Jon Ison

Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scripts.
