
                                  libscan 



Function

   [an error occurred while processing this directive]

Description

   Scans each signature, profile or HMM in a directory against a sequence
   database and writes a signature hits file for each one. Or scans
   sequences against such a library of discriminating elements and writes
   a library scan file for each one.

   This program is part of a suite of EMBOSS applications that directly
   or indirectly make use of the protein structure databases pdb and
   scop. This program is part of an experimental analysis pipeline
   described in an accompanying document. We provide the software in the
   hope that it will be useful. The applications were designed for
   specific research purposes and may not be useful or reliable in
   contexts other than the described pipeline. The development of the
   suite was coordinated by Jon Ison to whom enquiries and bug reports
   should be sent (email jison@hgmp.mrc.ac.uk).

   The advantage of screening a relatively small library of
   discriminating elements with a sequence is that it is sufficient for
   the sequence to detect its true family (discriminator) in the first
   rank for an effective prediction. This is in contrast to searching a
   larger sequence database to identify homology, where biologically
   significant hits may achieve statistically insignificant scores and
   therefore be missed. A library might help the detection of such
   proteins because they may still score their true discriminator higher
   than the others in the library regardless of statistical estimates.
   Further improvements to predictions are gained when multiple sources
   of evidence, in this case the different types of discriminating
   element, are considered.

   The libscan application allows a protein sequence or sequences to be
   screened against the library of discriminating elements. The results
   of a screen are returned to the user in a library scan file containing
   a list of top-scoring SCOP domains rank-ordered by p-value for each
   individual type of discriminator, and also for all of the
   discriminator types in combination (combined prediction). For the
   combined prediction, the p-value is derived from an empirically
   derived distribution of the product of the p-values of the individual
   methods.

   libscan runs in one of two modes either (i) database search mode or
   (ii) library screen mode. In database search mode libscan reads one or
   more directories each containing a single type of discriminating
   element, the permitted types are sparse sequence signature, Gribskov
   profile, Henikoff profile or hidden Markov model. Each directory must
   contain a discriminating element for each of one or more scop
   families; files for indivdual families should have the same name
   (possibly with different file extensions) in the different
   directories, e.g. the scop family with the identifier 46445 might be
   represented by files 46445.hmm, 46445.sig, 46445.gribs and 46445.henik
   in their respective directories. libscan scans each discriminating
   element against a sequence set that must also be provided by the user
   and generates a signature hits file (of scored hits to sequences in
   the set) for each individual discriminating element. In mode (i), the
   user must also provide a scop validation file so that a classification
   of hits can be given in the signature hits files. The user specifies a
   maximum number of false hits that are written to the signature hits
   files.

   In library screen mode, libscan reads a sequence set, screens each
   sequence against the library (directories of discriminating elements)
   and writes a library scan file (of top-scoring families) for each
   sequence. In either mode, a scop classification file is required as a
   source of family classification data. The paths and extensions of the
   sequence set and scop classification files (input) different types of
   discriminating elements (input), and paths and extension of signature
   hits files or library scan file (output) are specified by the user.

Algorithm

   The approach for calculating p-values for individual
   discriminator-sequence matches is the same irrespective of which mode
   libscan is run in and is summarised as follows: (i) Each
   discriminating element is scanned (scored) against each sequence. (ii)
   The ditribution of scores is generated for each different type of
   element. (iii) Using these distributions, a p-value is calculated for
   each discriminator-sequence match. The approach for calculating the
   'combined p-value' for each individual sequence is as follows: (i)
   p-values of the matches for the different types of discriminator
   versus a sequence are multiplied to yield the 'product of p-values'.
   (ii) A distribution of 'product of p-values' is generated for each
   individual sequence. (iii) Using these distributions, a so-called
   'combined p-value', reflecting the overall significance of the matches
   of the sequence to the different types of discriminators, is
   generated. Importantly, two (or more) p-values are only ever
   multiplied together if corresponding hit is to the same region of the
   protein. 'Same' is defined as two hits overlapping by a user-defined
   number of residues.

Usage

   No qa tests were found for libscan

Command line arguments

   [an error occurred while processing this directive]

   [an error occurred while processing this directive]

Input file format

   libscan reads any normal sequence USAs.

   No qa tests were found for libscan

   The format of the scop classification file is described in scopparse

   The format of the signature files is explained in siggen

   The format of the profile and hmm files is explained in documentation
   for the propechy application and the hmmer package respectively.

Output file format

   No qa tests were found for libscan

   The format of the signature hits file is described in sigscan

Data files

   EMBOSS data files are distributed with the application and stored in
   the standard EMBOSS data directory, which is defined by the EMBOSS
   environment variable EMBOSS_DATA.

   To see the available EMBOSS data files, run:

% embossdata -showall

   To fetch one of the data files (for example 'Exxx.dat') into your
   current directory for you to inspect or modify, run:

% embossdata -fetch -file Exxx.dat

   Users can provide their own data files in their own directories.
   Project specific files can be put in the current directory, or for
   tidier directory listings in a subdirectory called ".embossdata".
   Files for all EMBOSS runs can be put in the user's home directory, or
   again in a subdirectory called ".embossdata".

   The directories are searched in the following order:
     * . (your current directory)
     * .embossdata (under your current directory)
     * ~/ (your home directory)
     * ~/.embossdata

   libscan requires a residue substitution matrix.

Notes

   None.

References

   None.

Warnings

   The score distributions and therefore p-values are calculated only
   from the data that libscan is provided. Therefore, meaningful p-values
   are only guaranteed if the sequence set (database search mode) or
   number of families (library screeen mode) is sufficiently large.

Diagnostic Error Messages

   None.

Exit status

   It always exits with status 0.

Known bugs

   None. [an error occurred while processing this directive]

   Hidden Markov models can be generated for scop families by using
   hmmgen which uses the HMMER package.

   Simple frequency matrices, Gribskov profiles and Hennikoff profiles
   can be generated for scop families by using profgen.

   A 'signature file' contains a sparse sequence signature. The files are
   generated by siggen.

   A 'signature hits file' contains the results of a search of a
   discriminating element (one of protein signature, hidden Markov model,
   simple frequency matrix, Gribskov profile or Hennikoff profile)
   against a sequence database. The files are generated by sigscan and
   modelscan.

   A 'library scan file' holds the results of a search of a sequence
   against a library of discriminating elements for scop families (one
   directory for each type of element, e.g. sparse sequence signatures,
   profiles or HMMs).

   The library scan file contains, for each invividual type of
   discriminating element and for the combination of the elements,
   classification and other data for each of a user-defined number of
   top-scoring families (discriminators) from the scop database.

   A 'scop classification file' contains classification and other data
   for domains from the scop database. The file is in embl-like format
   and is generated by scopparse. Domain sequence information can be
   added to the file by using scopseqs.

   A 'scop validation file' contains sequence relatives (hits) for each
   of a number of different scop families, superfamilies and folds. The
   file contains the collated results from psiblast searches of a
   sequence database for the indvidual scop families; hits of unambiguous
   family assignment are listed under their respective family, otherwise
   a hit is assigned as relatives to a scop superfamily or fold instead.
   The scop validation file is generated by seqnr and is in embl-like
   format.

Author(s)

   Jon Ison (jison © rfcgr.mrc.ac.uk)
   MRC Rosalind Franklin Centre for Genomics Research Wellcome Trust
   Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, CB10 1SB, UK

   [an error occurred while processing this directive]

History

   Written (2003) - Jon Ison & Ranjeeva Ranasinghe

Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scripts.
