
PDBPLUS documentation

CONTENTS

   1.0 SUMMARY 
   2.0 INPUTS & OUTPUTS 
   3.0 INPUT FILE FORMAT 
   4.0 OUTPUT FILE FORMAT 
   5.0 DATA FILES 
   6.0 USAGE 
   7.0 KNOWN BUGS & WARNINGS 
   8.0 NOTES 
   9.0 DESCRIPTION 
   10.0 ALGORITHM 
   11.0 RELATED APPLICATIONS 
   12.0 DIAGNOSTIC ERROR MESSAGES 
   13.0 AUTHORS 
   14.0 REFERENCES 

1.0 SUMMARY

2.0 INPUTS & OUTPUTS

   PDBPLUS reads a directory of domain OR protein CCF files (clean
   coordinate files) and writes a directory containing the same files as
   the input directory but in which values for records for secondary
   structure and residue accessibility are given. These data are
   calculated by using the STRIDE and NACCESS programs and these must be
   installed on the system that is running PDBPLUS (see Section 8.0
   below). PDBPLUS also requires a directory containing files in PDB
   format for each coordinate file in the input directory: either the
   original PDB file (for proteins) or domain PDB files generated by
   using DOMAINER (for domains). The paths and extensions of the pdb
   (input) and coordinate (input and output) files are specified by the
   user (file extensions are given in the ACD file). The names of the
   output CCF files will be identical to those that are read.
   PDBPLUS generates 3 log files containing diagnostic messages for
   various problems encountered by PDBPARSE, STRIDE or NACCESS
   respectively (see Section 12.0 below).

3.0 INPUT FILE FORMAT

   The format of the CCF file is described in the PDBPARSE documentation.
   No qa tests were found for pdbplus

4.0 OUTPUT FILE FORMAT

   The format of the CCF file is described in the PDBPARSE documentation.
   No qa tests were found for pdbplus

5.0 DATA FILES

   PDBPLUS does not use a data file.

6.0 USAGE

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers (* if not always prompted):
  [-ccfin]             dirlist    This option specifies the location of CCF
                                  files (clean coordinate files) (input). A
                                  'clean cordinate file' contains protein
                                  coordinate and derived data for a single PDB
                                  file ('protein clean coordinate file') or a
                                  single domain from SCOP or CATH ('domain
                                  clean coordinate file'), in CCF format
                                  (EMBL-like). The files, generated by using
                                  PDBPARSE (PDB files) or DOMAINER (domains),
                                  contain 'cleaned-up' data that is
                                  self-consistent and error-corrected. Records
                                  for residue solvent accessibility and
                                  secondary structure are added to the file by
                                  using PDBPLUS.
  [-pdbin]             directory  This option specifies the location of PDB
                                  files (input). A PDB file contains protein
                                  coordinate and other data. A detailed
                                  explanation of the PDB file format is
                                  available on the PDB web site
                                  http://www.rcsb.org/pdb/info.html
   -pdbprefix          string     This option specifies the file prefix of PDB
                                  files (if any)
   -mode               menu       This option specifies the mode of operation.
*  -thresholdsize      integer    This option specifies the threshold size for
                                  SSEs (secondary structure elements)
  [-ccfout]            directory  This option specifies the location of CCF
                                  files (clean coordinate files) (output). A
                                  'clean cordinate file' contains protein
                                  coordinate and derived data for a single PDB
                                  file ('protein clean coordinate file') or a
                                  single domain from SCOP or CATH ('domain
                                  clean coordinate file'), in CCF format
                                  (EMBL-like). The files, generated by using
                                  PDBPARSE (PDB files) or DOMAINER (domains),
                                  contain 'cleaned-up' data that is
                                  self-consistent and error-corrected. Records
                                  for residue solvent accessibility and
                                  secondary structure are added to the file by
                                  using PDBPLUS.
   -errfile            outfile    This option specifies the name of the log
                                  file for PDBPLUS
*  -serrfile           outfile    This option specifies the name of the log
                                  file for STRIDE
*  -nerrfile           outfile    This option specifies the name of the log
                                  file for NACCESS

   Additional (Optional) qualifiers: (none)
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers: (none)
   Associated qualifiers:

   "-errfile" associated qualifiers
   -odirectory         string     Output directory

   "-serrfile" associated qualifiers
   -odirectory         string     Output directory

   "-nerrfile" associated qualifiers
   -odirectory         string     Output directory

   General qualifiers:
   -auto               boolean    Turn off prompts
   -stdout             boolean    Write standard output
   -filter             boolean    Read standard input, write standard output
   -options            boolean    Prompt for standard and additional values
   -debug              boolean    Write debug output to program.dbg
   -verbose            boolean    Report some/full command line options
   -help               boolean    Report command line options. More
                                  information on associated and general
                                  qualifiers can be found with -help -verbose
   -warning            boolean    Report warnings
   -error              boolean    Report errors
   -fatal              boolean    Report fatal errors
   -die                boolean    Report deaths


   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers Allowed values Default
   [-ccfin]
   (Parameter 1) This option specifies the location of CCF files (clean
   coordinate files) (input). A 'clean cordinate file' contains protein
   coordinate and derived data for a single PDB file ('protein clean
   coordinate file') or a single domain from SCOP or CATH ('domain clean
   coordinate file'), in CCF format (EMBL-like). The files, generated by
   using PDBPARSE (PDB files) or DOMAINER (domains), contain 'cleaned-up'
   data that is self-consistent and error-corrected. Records for residue
   solvent accessibility and secondary structure are added to the file by
   using PDBPLUS. Directory with files ./
   [-pdbin]
   (Parameter 2) This option specifies the location of PDB files (input).
   A PDB file contains protein coordinate and other data. A detailed
   explanation of the PDB file format is available on the PDB web site
   http://www.rcsb.org/pdb/info.html Directory ./
   -pdbprefix This option specifies the file prefix of PDB files (if any)
   Any string is accepted An empty string is accepted
   -mode This option specifies the mode of operation.
   1 (Use STRIDE only)
   2 (Use NACCESS only)
   3 (Use STRIDE and NACCESS)
   1
   -thresholdsize This option specifies the threshold size for SSEs
   (secondary structure elements) Any integer value 4
   [-ccfout]
   (Parameter 3) This option specifies the location of CCF files (clean
   coordinate files) (output). A 'clean cordinate file' contains protein
   coordinate and derived data for a single PDB file ('protein clean
   coordinate file') or a single domain from SCOP or CATH ('domain clean
   coordinate file'), in CCF format (EMBL-like). The files, generated by
   using PDBPARSE (PDB files) or DOMAINER (domains), contain 'cleaned-up'
   data that is self-consistent and error-corrected. Records for residue
   solvent accessibility and secondary structure are added to the file by
   using PDBPLUS. Directory ./
   -errfile This option specifies the name of the log file for PDBPLUS
   Output file pdbplus.log
   -serrfile This option specifies the name of the log file for STRIDE
   Output file stride.log
   -nerrfile This option specifies the name of the log file for NACCESS
   Output file naccess.log
   Additional (Optional) qualifiers Allowed values Default
   (none)
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers Allowed values Default
   (none)

  6.2 EXAMPLE SESSION

   An example of interactive use of PDBPLUS is shown below. No qa tests
   were found for pdbplus All CCF files were read from
   testdata/pdbplus/ccfin and CCF files (annotated with values for
   secondary structure and solvent accessibility) were written to
   testdata/pdbplus/ccfout. The STRIDE and NACCESS programs ran on PDB
   files within testdata/. Three log files (pdbplus.log, naccess.log and
   stride.log) were written. The threshold size for secondary structure
   elements was 4 residues. File extension of all input and output files
   would be set in the ACD file.

7.0 KNOWN BUGS & WARNINGS

   NACCESS and STRIDE do not always work as advertised owing, e.g. to
   arbitrary array limits in their code. If the derived data appears to
   be missing from the PDDBPARSE output this is probably why.

8.0 NOTES

   PDBPLUS requires a working version of NACCESS and STRIDE. When running
   PDBPLUS at the RFCGR it is essential that the commands 'use naccess'
   or 'use stride' (which run the scripts /packages/menu/USE/naccess and
   /packages/menu/USE/stride respectively) are given before it is run.

  8.1 GLOSSARY OF FILE TYPES

   FILE TYPE FORMAT DESCRIPTION CREATED BY SEE ALSO
   Clean coordinate file (for protein) CCF format (EMBL-like). Protein
   coordinate and derived data for a single PDB file. The data are
   'cleaned-up': self-consistent and error-corrected. PDBPARSE Records
   for residue solvent accessibility and secondary structure are added to
   the file by using PDBPLUS.
   Clean coordinate file (for domain) CCF format (EMBL-like). Protein
   coordinate and derived data for a single domain from SCOP or CATH. The
   data are 'cleaned-up': self-consistent and error-corrected. DOMAINER
   Records for residue solvent accessibility and secondary structure are
   added to the file by using PDBPLUS.
   PDB file PDB format. Protein coordinate data in PDB format. N.A. N.A.
   Domain PDB file PDB format. Protein coordinate data for a single
   domain from SCOP or CATH. DOMAINER N.A.

   [an error occurred while processing this directive] [an error occurred
   while processing this directive]

9.0 DESCRIPTION

   PDBPLUS is a wrapper to the STRIDE [1] and NACCESS [2] programs that
   adds derived data (i - iv below) to a CCF file. The values of the
   derived data for a given residue will of course depend on whether they
   were calculated from the coordinates for the entire structure or just
   the domain, i.e. whether PDBPLUS is provided with protein or domain
   CCF files. Thus PDBPLUS provides useful flexibility in generating the
   derived data.
     * Absolute (Abs.) and relative (Rel.) accessible surface area of
       residues according to NACCESS. Abs. is the summed accessible
       surface area of the atoms, whereas Rel. is expressed as a
       percentage relative to the accessibility of the atoms in an
       extended ALA-x-ALA tri-peptide conformation. The NACCESS authors
       treat alpha carbons as side-chain atoms so that glycine can have a
       value for side-chain accessible surface area (see 'Database
       format' below). They are therefore not included in the main-chain.
     * Phi and Psi angle and solvent accessible surface area of residues
       as calculated by using STRIDE.
     * Secondary structure assignment according to STRIDE, one of 'H'
       (alpha helix), 'G' (3-10 helix), 'I' (Pi-helix), 'E' (extended
       conformation), 'B' or 'b' (isolated bridge), 'T' (turn) or 'C'
       (coil, i.e. none of the above).
     * The number of helical or beta-strand secondary structure elements
       (SSEs) in the chain or domain. An 'element' is defined as a run of
       a user-defined number (typically 4) of residues in the 'H', 'G' or
       'I' conformation (helices) or the 'E' conformation (beta-strands).

10.0 ALGORITHM

   Values in the CCF file for the number of helices (NH) or beta-strands
   (NE) in a chain and columns 12-13 and 22-34 of the coordinate line
   record (CO) are given null values ('.' or 0) by PDBPARSE (see Section
   4.0). PDBPLUS is used to assign values to these these records.

11.0 RELATED APPLICATIONS

See also

   Program name Description
   aaindexextract Extract data from AAINDEX
   allversusall Does an all-versus-all global alignment for each set of
   sequences in an input directory and writes files of sequence
   similarity values
   cathparse Reads raw CATH classification files and writes DCF file
   (domain classification file)
   cutgextract Extract data from CUTG
   domainer Reads CCF files (clean coordinate files) for proteins and
   writes CCF files for domains, taken from a DCF file (domain
   classification file)
   domainnr Removes redundant domains from a DCF file (domain
   classification file). The file must contain domain sequence
   information, which can be added by using DOMAINSEQS
   domainseqs Adds sequence records to a DCF file (domain classification
   file)
   domainsse Adds secondary structure records to a DCF file (domain
   classification file)
   hetparse Converts raw dictionary of heterogen groups to a file in
   EMBL-like format
   pdbparse Parses PDB files and writes CCF files (clean coordinate
   files) for proteins
   pdbtosp Convert raw swissprot:PDB equivalence file to EMBL-like format
   printsextract Extract data from PRINTS
   prosextract Builds the PROSITE motif database for patmatmotifs to
   search
   rebaseextract Extract data from REBASE
   scopparse Reads raw SCOP classification files and writes a DCF file
   (domain classification file)
   seqnr Removes redundancy from DHF files (domain hits files) or other
   files of sequences
   sites Reads CCF files (clean coordinate files) and writes CON files
   (contact files) of residue-ligand contact data for domains in a DCF
   file (domain classification file)
   ssematch Searches a DCF file (domain classification file) for
   secondary structure matches
   tfextract Extract data from TRANSFAC

12.0 DIAGNOSTIC ERROR MESSAGES

   The following messages (in "quotes") may appear in the PDBPARSE log
   file (an explanation is given in parenethesis).
     * "clean coordinate file not found my.file" (a clean coordinate
       input file was not found for input)
     * "ERROR Clean coordinate file read error: my.file" (error in
       reading clean coordinate file)
     * "no stride output for: my.file" (No STRIDE output was generated
       for my.file)
     * "stride output for: my.file" (STRIDE output *was* generated for
       my.file)
     * "no naccess output for:" (No NACCESS output was generated for
       my.file)
     * "naccess output for:" (NACCESS output *was* generated for my.file)
     * "PDB file not found: my.file" (a pdb file was not found for input)
     * "Could not write results file: my.file" (output file could not be
       written)
     * "Could not convert chain id A to chain number in pdb file my.file"
       (chain identifier was not found in the clean coordinate file)
     * "STRIDE failures: %12\nNACCESS failures: 123" (STRIDE failed for
       12 pdb files and NACCESS failed for 123 pdb files. The clean
       coordinate files will lack the appropriate data (see Section
       10.0).

13.0 AUTHORS

   Jon Ison (jison@rfcgr.mrc.ac.uk)
   MRC Rosalind Franklin Centre for Genomics Research Wellcome Trust
   Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, CB10 1SB, UK

14.0 REFERENCES

   Please cite the authors and EMBOSS.

  14.1 Other useful references

1. Frishman, D. & Argos, P. (1995).  Knowledge-Based Secondary Structure Assign
ment.  Proteins 23:566-579.

2. Hubbard,S.J. & Thornton, J.M. (1993), 'NACCESS', Computer Program, Departmen
t of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University College London.
