
                                   pscan 



Function

   Scans proteins using PRINTS

Description

   PRINTS is a database of diagnostic protein signatures, or
   fingerprints.

   Fingerprints are groups of conserved motifs or elements that together
   form a diagnostic signature for particular protein families.

   An uncharacterised sequence matching all motifs or elements can then
   be readily diagnosed as a true match to a particular family
   fingerprint.

   They can be used to diagnose family relationships in newly-determined
   sequences (especially from genome projects).

   Usually the motifs or elements do not overlap, but are separated along
   a sequence, though they may be contiguous in 3D-space. Fingerprints
   can encode protein folds and functionalities more flexibly and
   powerfully than can single motifs, full diagnostic potency deriving
   from the mutual context provided by motif neighbours.

   Diagnostically, this is more powerful than using single motifs by
   virtue of the biological context afforded by matching motif
   neighbours.

   pscan finds matches between a query protein sequence and the motifs or
   elements in the PRINTS database. It reports various classes of
   matches:

     * Matches where all elements of a motif exist in the correct order
     * Matches where all elements exist but some are in the incorrect
       order
     * Matches where some elements match and are in the correct order
     * Miscellaneous matches.

   The home web page of the PRINTS database is:
   http://www.bioinf.man.ac.uk/dbbrowser/PRINTS/

Usage

Command line arguments

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers:
  [-sequence]          seqall     Sequence database USA
   -emin               integer    Minimum number of elements per fingerprint
   -emax               integer    Maximum number of elements per fingerprint
  [-outfile]           outfile    Output file name

   Additional (Optional) qualifiers: (none)
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers: (none)
   Associated qualifiers:

   "-sequence" associated qualifiers
   -sbegin1             integer    Start of each sequence to be used
   -send1               integer    End of each sequence to be used
   -sreverse1           boolean    Reverse (if DNA)
   -sask1               boolean    Ask for begin/end/reverse
   -snucleotide1        boolean    Sequence is nucleotide
   -sprotein1           boolean    Sequence is protein
   -slower1             boolean    Make lower case
   -supper1             boolean    Make upper case
   -sformat1            string     Input sequence format
   -sdbname1            string     Database name
   -sid1                string     Entryname
   -ufo1                string     UFO features
   -fformat1            string     Features format
   -fopenfile1          string     Features file name

   "-outfile" associated qualifiers
   -odirectory2         string     Output directory

   General qualifiers:
   -auto                boolean    Turn off prompts
   -stdout              boolean    Write standard output
   -filter              boolean    Read standard input, write standard output
   -options             boolean    Prompt for standard and additional values
   -debug               boolean    Write debug output to program.dbg
   -verbose             boolean    Report some/full command line options
   -help                boolean    Report command line options. More
                                  information on associated and general
                                  qualifiers can be found with -help -verbose
   -warning             boolean    Report warnings
   -error               boolean    Report errors
   -fatal               boolean    Report fatal errors
   -die                 boolean    Report deaths


   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers Allowed values Default
   [-sequence]
   (Parameter 1) Sequence database USA Readable sequence(s) Required
   -emin Minimum number of elements per fingerprint Integer from 1 to 20
   2
   -emax Maximum number of elements per fingerprint Integer up to 20 20
   [-outfile]
   (Parameter 2) Output file name Output file <sequence>.pscan
   Additional (Optional) qualifiers Allowed values Default
   (none)
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers Allowed values Default
   (none)

Input file format

   pscan reads one or more protein sequence USAs.

Output file format

   The program reports hits in four classes.

   Class1:
          Matches where all elements of a motif exist in the correct
          order

   Class2:
          Matches where all elements exist but some are in the incorrect
          order

   Class3:
          Matches where some elements match and are in the correct order

   Class4:
          Miscellaneous matches

Data files

   The data file is stored in the PRINTS directory of the standard EMBOSS
   data directory.
     * prints.mat Matrices derived from PRINTS
     * Pxxxxx Information for each fingerprint

   The column information is described at the top of the matrix data file

Notes

   The matrix information used to scan a sequence is derived from the
   final motif sets in the PRINTS database. The matrices are of the
   simple frequency type and contain the number of times a residue occurs
   in each position of the alignment. Each matrix therefore has a highest
   possible score, being the sum of the maximum score of each column. A
   match to the sequence window is obtained if it has a score equal to or
   greater than the percentage of the maximum score of the lowest scoring
   sequence in the final motif set.

   The data files must have been created before running this program.
   This is done by running the printsextract program with the
   "prints.dat" file from a PRINTS release. You may have to ask your
   system manager to do this.

References

    1. Attwood, T.K., Flower, D.R., Lewis, A.P., Mabey, J.E., Morgan,
       S.R., Scordis, P., Selley, J. and Wright, W. (1999) PRINTS
       prepares for the new millennium. Nucleic Acids Research, 27(1),
       220-225.
    2. Attwood, T.K., Beck, M.E., Flower, D.R., Scordis, P. and Selley,
       J. (1998) The PRINTS protein fingerprint database in its fifth
       year. Nucleic Acids Research, 26(1), 304-308.
    3. Attwood, T.K., Beck, M.E., Bleasby, A.J., Degtyarenko, K., Michie,
       A.D. and Parry-Smith, D.J. (1997) Novel developments with the
       PRINTS protein motif fingerprint database. Nucleic Acids Research,
       25 (1), 212-216.
    4. Attwood, T.K. and Beck, M.E. (1994) PRINTS - A protein motif
       fingerprint database. Protein Engineering, 7(7), 841-848.
    5. Bleasby, A.J., Akrigg, D.A. and Attwood, T.K. (1994) OWL - A
       non-redundant composite protein sequence database. Nucleic Acids
       Research, 22(17), 3574-77.
    6. Bleasby, A.J. and Wootton, J.C. (1990) Constructing validated,
       non- redundant composite protein sequence databases. Protein
       Engineering, 3(3), 153-159.
    7. Parry-Smith, D.J. and Attwood, T.K. (1992) ADSP - A new package
       for computational sequence analysis. CABIOS, 8(5), 451-459.
    8. Attwood, T.K. and Findlay, J.B.C. (1994) Fingerprinting
       G-protein-coupled receptors. Prot.Engng. 7(2), 195-203.
    9. Attwood, T.K. and Findlay, J.B.C. (1993) Design of a
       discriminating finger- print for G-protein-coupled receptors.
       Prot.Engng. 6(2) 167-176.
   10. Akrigg, D., Attwood, T.K., Bleasby, A.J., Findlay, J.B.C, North,
       A.C.T., Maughan, N.A., Parry-Smith, D.J., Perkins, D.N. and
       Wootton, J.C. (1992) SERPENT - An information storage and analysis
       resource for protein sequences. CABIOS 8(3) 295-296.
   11. Parry-Smith, D.J. and Attwood, T.K. (1991) SOMAP - A novel
       interactive approach to multiple protein sequence aligment.
       CABIOS, 7(2), 233-235.
   12. Perkins, D.N. and Attwood, T.K. (1995) VISTAS - A package for
       VIsualising STructures And Sequences of proteins. J.Mol.Graph.,
       13, 73-75.
   13. Parry-Smith, D.J., Payne, A.W.R, Michie, A.D. and Attwood, T.K.
       (1998) CINEMA - A novel Colour INteractive Editor for Multiple
       Alignments. Gene, 211(2), GC45-56.

Warnings

   The program will warn you if a DNA sequence is given.

Diagnostic Error Messages

   If you get the following EMBOSS FATAL ERROR message:

"prints.mat file not found. Create it with printsextract."

   then your local PRINTS data has not been set up correctly in your
   EMBOSS DATA directory. Use 'printsextract' to do this.

Exit status

   It exits with status 0 unless an error is reported.

Known bugs

See also

    Program name                         Description
   antigenic      Finds antigenic sites in proteins
   digest         Protein proteolytic enzyme or reagent cleavage digest
   epestfind      Finds PEST motifs as potential proteolytic cleavage sites
   fuzzpro        Protein pattern search
   fuzztran       Protein pattern search after translation
   helixturnhelix Report nucleic acid binding motifs
   oddcomp        Finds protein sequence regions with a biased composition
   patmatdb       Search a protein sequence with a motif
   patmatmotifs   Search a PROSITE motif database with a protein sequence
   pepcoil        Predicts coiled coil regions
   preg           Regular expression search of a protein sequence
   sigcleave      Reports protein signal cleavage sites

     * printsextract - Extract data from PRINTS. pscan uses the PRINTS
       data. Until printsextract has been run to set up the PRINTS data,
       pscan will not run correctly.

Author(s)

   Alan Bleasby (ableasby © rfcgr.mrc.ac.uk)
   MRC Rosalind Franklin Centre for Genomics Research Wellcome Trust
   Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, CB10 1SB, UK

History

Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scripts.

Comments
