
                            SEQNR documentation
                                      
   

CONTENTS

   1.0 SUMMARY 
   2.0 INPUTS & OUTPUTS 
   3.0 INPUT FILE FORMAT 
   4.0 OUTPUT FILE FORMAT 
   5.0 DATA FILES 
   6.0 USAGE 
   7.0 KNOWN BUGS & WARNINGS 
   8.0 NOTES 
   9.0 DESCRIPTION 
   10.0 ALGORITHM 
   11.0 RELATED APPLICATIONS 
   12.0 DIAGNOSTIC ERROR MESSAGES 
   13.0 AUTHORS 
   14.0 REFERENCES 

1.0 SUMMARY

   Removes redundancy from DHF files (domain hits files) or other files
   of sequences.

2.0 INPUTS & OUTPUTS

   SEQNR removes redundancy from DHF files (domain hits files) or other
   files of sequences. A directory of DHF files (all sequences) is read
   and a directory of new DHF files (non-redundant sequences) plus
   (optionally) a second directory of DHF files (redundant sequences) is
   written. Optionally, up to two further directories of filter sequences
   may be read: these are considered in the redundancy calculation but
   never appear in the output files. Typically, one of the further
   directories contains DHF files each with a single sequence and the
   other DAF files (domain alignment files) each containing a sequence
   alignment, but any sequence(s) may be given. Each filter directory
   must contain a file for each file in main input directory and the
   files must have the same base name. For example, sequences from
   "family.dhf" and "family.daf" are considered for the input DHF file
   "family.hits".
   Redundancy is removed at either (i) a user-defined threshold of
   sequence similarity or (ii) a user-defined range of threshold sequence
   similarity. Files of sequences in any supported format may be read and
   written (not just DHF or DAF files). A log file is also written.
   The path for all files (input and output) are specified by the user.
   The file extensions are set in the ACD file. The name of the log file
   is set by the user.

3.0 INPUT FILE FORMAT

   The format of the domain hits file is described in SEQSEARCH
   documentation.
   The format of the domain alignment file is described in DOMAINALIGN
   documentation.
   If other sequences or sequence sets (aligned or unaligned) are used as
   input, all of the common file formats are supported.

4.0 OUTPUT FILE FORMAT

   The format of the domain hits file is described in SEQSEARCH
   documentation.

5.0 DATA FILES

   SEQNR requires a residue substitution matrix.

6.0 USAGE

  6.1 COMMAND LINE ARGUMENTS

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers Allowed values Default
   [-dhfin]
   (Parameter 1) This option specifies the location of DHF files (domain
   hits files) (input). A 'domain hits file' contains database hits
   (sequences) with domain classification information, in the DHF format
   (FASTA or EMBL-like). The hits are relatives to a SCOP or CATH family
   and are found from a search of a sequence database. Files containing
   hits retrieved by PSIBLAST are generated by using SEQSEARCH. Directory
   with files ./
   -dosing This option specifies whether to use singlet sequences (e.g.
   DHF files) to filter input. Optionally, up to two further directories
   of sequences may be read: these are considered in the redundancy
   calculation but never appear in the output files. Toggle value Yes/No
   Y
   -singlets This option specifies the location of singlet filter
   sequences (e.g. DHF files) (input). A 'domain hits file' contains
   database hits (sequences) with domain classification information, in
   the DHF format (FASTA or EMBL-like). The hits are relatives to a SCOP
   or CATH family and are found from a search of a sequence database.
   Files containing hits retrieved by PSIBLAST are generated by using
   SEQSEARCH. Directory ./
   -dosets This option specifies whether to use sets of sequences (e.g.
   DHF files) to filter input. Optionally, up to two further directories
   of sequences may be read: these are considered in the redundancy
   calculation but never appear in the output files. Toggle value Yes/No
   Y
   -insets This option specifies location of sets of filter sequences
   (e.g. DAF files) (input). A 'domain alignment file' contains a
   sequence alignment of domains belonging to the same SCOP or CATH
   family. The file is in clustal format annotated with domain family
   classification information. The files generated by using SCOPALIGN
   will contain a structure-based sequence alignment of domains of known
   structure only. Such alignments can be extended with sequence
   relatives (of unknown structure) by using SEQALIGN. Directory ./
   -mode This option specifies whether to remove redundancy at a single
   threshold % sequence similarity or remove redundancy outside a range
   of acceptable threshold % similarity. All permutations of pair-wise
   sequence alignments are calculated for each set of input sequences in
   turn using the EMBOSS implementation of the Needleman and Wunsch
   global alignment algorithm. Redundant sequences are removed in one of
   two modes as follows: (i) If a pair of proteins achieve greater than a
   threshold percentage sequence similarity (specified by the user) the
   shortest sequence is discarded. (ii) If a pair of proteins have a
   percentage sequence similarity that lies outside an acceptable range
   (specified by the user) the shortest sequence is discarded.
   1 (Remove redundancy at a single threshold % sequence similarity)
   2 (Remove redundancy outside a range of acceptable threshold %
   similarity)
   1
   -thresh This option specifies the % sequence identity redundancy
   threshold. The % sequence identity redundancy threshold determines the
   redundancy calculation. If a pair of proteins achieve greater than
   this threshold the shortest sequence is discarded. Any numeric value
   95.0
   -threshlow This option specifies the % sequence identity redundancy
   threshold (lower limit). The % sequence identity redundancy threshold
   determines the redundancy calculation. If a pair of proteins have a
   percentage sequence similarity that lies outside an acceptable range
   the shortest sequence is discarded. Any numeric value 30.0
   -threshup This option specifies the % sequence identity redundancy
   threshold (upper limit). The % sequence identity redundancy threshold
   determines the redundancy calculation. If a pair of proteins have a
   percentage sequence similarity that lies outside an acceptable range
   the shortest sequence is discarded. Any numeric value 90.0
   [-dhfout]
   (Parameter 2) This option specifies the location of DHF files (domain
   hits files) of non-redundant sequences (output). A 'domain hits file'
   contains database hits (sequences) with domain classification
   information, in the DHF format (FASTA or EMBL-like). The hits are
   relatives to a SCOP or CATH family and are found from a search of a
   sequence database. Files containing hits retrieved by PSIBLAST are
   generated by using SEQSEARCH. Directory ./
   -dored This option specifies whether to retain redundant sequences. If
   this option is set a DHF (domain hits file) of redundant sequences is
   written. Toggle value Yes/No N
   -outred This option specifies the location of DHF files (domain hits
   files) of redundant sequences (output). A 'domain hits file' contains
   database hits (sequences) with domain classification information, in
   the DHF format (FASTA or EMBL-like). The hits are relatives to a SCOP
   or CATH family and are found from a search of a sequence database.
   Files containing hits retrieved by PSIBLAST are generated by using
   SEQSEARCH. Directory ./
   -logf This option specifies the name of SEQNR log file (output). The
   log file contains messages about any errors arising while SEQNR ran.
   Output file seqnr.log
   Additional (Optional) qualifiers Allowed values Default
   -matrix This option specifies the residue substitution matrix that is
   used for sequence comparison. Comparison matrix file in EMBOSS data
   path EBLOSUM62
   -gapopen This option specifies the gap insertion penalty. The gap
   insertion penalty is the score taken away when a gap is created. The
   best value depends on the choice of comparison matrix. The default
   value assumes you are using the EBLOSUM62 matrix for protein
   sequences, and the EDNAFULL matrix for nucleotide sequences. Floating
   point number from 1.0 to 100.0 10.0 for any sequence
   -gapextend This option specifies the gap extension penalty. The gap
   extension, penalty is added to the standard gap penalty for each base
   or residue in the gap. This is how long gaps are penalized. Usually
   you will expect a few long gaps rather than many short gaps, so the
   gap extension penalty should be lower than the gap penalty. An
   exception is where one or both sequences are single reads with
   possible sequencing errors in which case you would expect many single
   base gaps. You can get this result by setting the gap open penalty to
   zero (or very low) and using the gap extension penalty to control gap
   scoring. Floating point number from 0.0 to 10.0 0.5 for any sequence
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers Allowed values Default
   (none)

  6.2 EXAMPLE SESSION

   An example of interactive use of SEQNR is shown below.

Hello, darling: seqnr
Removes redundancy from DHF files (domain hits files) or other files of
sequences.
Location of DHF files (domain hits files) for input (DHF format) [./]: test_dat
a/seqnr/hitsin
Use singlet sequences (e.g. DHF files) to filter input [Y]: y
Location of singlet filter sequences (e.g. DHF files) for input [./]: test_data
/seqnr/singlets
Use sets of sequences (e.g. DHF files) to filter input [Y]: y
Location of sets of filter sequences (e.g. DAF files) for input [./]: test_data
/seqnr/sets
Redundancy removal options
         1 : Remove redundancy at a single threshold % sequence similarity
         2 : Remove redundancy outside a range of acceptable threshold % simila
rity
Select number [1]: 1
The % sequence identity redundancy threshold [95.0]: 70
Location of DHF files (domain hits files) of non-redundant sequences for output
 (DHF format) [./]: test_data/seqnr/hitsnr
Retain redundant sequences [N]: y
Location of DHF files (domain hits files) of redundant sequences for output (DH
F format) [./]: test_data/seqnr/hitsred
Name seqnr log file (output) [seqnr.log]: test_data/seqnr/seqnr.log
Processing test_data/seqnr/hitsin/54894.dhf
Processing test_data/seqnr/hitsin/55074.dhf

   Two domains within the same family are classified as redundant if they
   share at least 40% sequence similarity; the default residue
   substitution matrix EBLOSUM62 and default gap insertion and extension
   penalties were used for the alignments.
   The following command line would achieve the same result.


seqnr -in test_data/seqnr/hitsin -dosing Y -insing test_data/seqnr/singlets -do
sets Y -insets
test_data/seqnr/sets -mode 1 -thresh 70 -out test_data/seqnr/hitsnr -dored Y
-outred test_data/seqnr/hitsred -logf testdata_new/seqnr/seqnr.log

7.0 KNOWN BUGS & WARNINGS

   None.

8.0 NOTES

   None.

  8.1 GLOSSARY OF FILE TYPES

   FILE TYPE FORMAT DESCRIPTION CREATED BY SEE ALSO
   Domain hits file DHF format (FASTA-like format with domain
   classification information). Database hits (sequences) with domain
   classification information. The hits are relatives to a SCOP or CATH
   family and are found from a search of a sequence database. SEQSEARCH
   (hits retrieved by PSIBLAST) N.A.
   Domain alignment file DAF format (CLUSTAL-like format with domain
   classification information). Contains a sequence alignment of domains
   belonging to the same SCOP or CATH family. The file is annotated with
   domain family classification information. DOMAINALIGN (structure-based
   sequence alignment of domains of known structure). DOMAINALIGN
   alignments can be extended with sequence relatives (of unknown
   structure) to the family in question by using SEQALIGN.

9.0 DESCRIPTION

   Redundancy in a database or other collection of sequences occurs when
   one or more similar sequences are present. The inclusion of very
   similar sequences in certain analyses will introduce undesirable bias.
   For example, a family may possess 100 sequences in the sequence
   database, but 90 of these might be essentially the same sequence, e.g.
   very close relatives or mutations of a single sequence. Although 100
   sequences are known, the family only contains 11 sequences that are
   essentially unique. For many applications it is desirable or even
   essential to remove redundant sequences from a set in order to produce
   a smaller set that is representative of the whole. SEQNR removes
   redundancy from an input file of sequences, either at a single
   threshold of sequence similiarty (e.g. 40%) or within a threshold
   range of sequence similiarty (e.g. 40% - 70%).

10.0 ALGORITHM

   Redundancy is calculated for each DHF file in the input directory in
   turn. The procedure is as follows. 1. Create a list of sequences from
   the main input directory. 2. Add sequences from both filter
   directories (if specified) to list but mark them up (they are
   considered in the redundancy calculation but never appear in the
   output files). 3. Identify redundant domains. 4. Write non-redundant
   domains to main output directory. 5. If specified, write redundant
   domains to output directory.

11.0 RELATED APPLICATIONS

   APPLICATION DESCRIPTION
   DOMAINREP Reorder DCF file (domain classification file) so that the
   representative structure of each user-specified node is given first.
   DOMAINALIGN Generates structure-based sequence alignments for nodes in
   a DCF file (domain classification file).
   SEQSEARCH Generate DHF files (domain hits files) of database hits
   (sequences) from a DAF file (domain alignment file) or other sequences
   by using PSI-BLAST.
   SEQWORDS Generates DHF files (domain hits files) of database hits
   (sequences) for nodes in a DCF file (domain classification file) by
   keyword search of UniProt.
   SEQFRAGGLE Removes fragments from DHF files (domain hits files) or
   other files of sequences.
   SEQSORT Reads DHF files (domain hits files) of database hits
   (sequences) and removes hits of ambiguous classification.
   SEQNR Removes redundancy from files of database hits (sequences).
   SEQALIGN Reads a DAF file (domain alignment file) and a DHF (domain
   hits file) and writes a DAF file extended with the hits.

12.0 DIAGNOSTIC ERROR MESSAGES

   The log file might contain the following messages:
   embHitlistReadFasta call failed in seqnr (By default SEQNR expects a
   domain hits file in the main input directory and the first (singlets)
   filter directory. This message is given if some other type of sequence
   file is given. Its not really an error, just a warning).
   Empty input file my.file (This is given if the main input file
   'my.file' did not contain any sequences. No output file is generated
   for this file.)
   Empty singlets filter file my.file (This is given if the singlets
   filter file 'my.file' did not contain any sequences. An output file is
   still generated for this file.)
   Empty sets filter file my.file (This is given if the sets filter file
   'my.file' did not contain any sequences. An output file is still
   generated for this file.)
   ajDmxScopalgRead call failed in seqnr my.file (By default SEQNR
   expects a domain alignment file in the second (sets) filter directory.
   This message is given if some other type of sequence sets file (called
   'my.file') is given. Its not really an error, just a warning).

13.0 AUTHORS

   Jon Ison (jison@rfcgr.mrc.ac.uk)
   MRC Rosalind Franklin Centre for Genomics Research Wellcome Trust
   Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, CB10 1SB, UK
   based on an original program written by
   Ranjeeva Ranasinghe (rranasin@rfcgr.mrc.ac.uk)

14.0 REFERENCES

   Please cite the authors and EMBOSS.
   Rice P, Longden I and Bleasby A (2000) "EMBOSS - The European
   Molecular Biology Open Software Suite" Trends in Genetics, 15:276-278.
   
   See also http://emboss.sourceforge.net/

  14.1 Other useful references
