
   [an error occurred while processing this directive]

siggenlig documentation

   [an error occurred while processing this directive]

CONTENTS

   1.0 SUMMARY 
   2.0 INPUTS & OUTPUTS 
   3.0 INPUT FILE FORMAT 
   4.0 OUTPUT FILE FORMAT 
   5.0 DATA FILES 
   6.0 USAGE 
   7.0 COMMAND-LINE ARGUMENTS 
   8.0 KNOWN BUGS & WARNINGS 
   9.0 NOTES 
   10.0 DESCRIPTION 
   11.0 ALGORITHM 
   12.0 RELATED APPLICATIONS 
   13.0 DIAGNOSTIC ERROR MESSAGES 
   14.0 AUTHORS 
   15.0 REFERENCES 

1.0 SUMMARY

   Generate ligand-binding signatures from a CON file

   siggenlig is a generic tool for

2.0 INPUTS & OUTPUTS

   siggenlig reads a

3.0 INPUT FILE FORMAT

4.0 OUTPUT FILE FORMAT

5.0 DATA FILES

   siggenlig does not use a data file.

6.0 USAGE

7.0 COMMAND-LINE ARGUMENTS

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers (* if not always prompted):
  [-confile]           infile     This option specifies the name of the CON
                                  file (contact file) (input). A 'contact
                                  file' contains contact data for a protein or
                                  a domain from SCOP or CATH, in the CON
                                  format (EMBL-like). The contacts may be
                                  intra-chain residue-residue, inter-chain
                                  residue-residue or residue-ligand. The files
                                  are generated by using CONTACTS, INTERFACE
                                  and SITES.
   -ccfpdir            directory  This option specifies the location of
                                  protein CCF file (clean coordinate files)
                                  (input). A 'clean cordinate file' contains
                                  protein coordinate and derived data for a
                                  single PDB file ('protein clean coordinate
                                  file') or a single domain from SCOP or CATH
                                  ('domain clean coordinate file'), in CCF
                                  format (EMBL-like). The files, generated by
                                  using PDBPARSE (PDB files) or DOMAINER
                                  (domains), contain 'cleaned-up' data that is
                                  self-consistent and error-corrected.
                                  Records for residue solvent accessibility
                                  and secondary structure are added to the
                                  file by using PDBPLUS. default: "./
   -ccfddir            directory  This option specifies the location of
                                  protein CCF file (clean coordinate files)
                                  (input). A 'clean cordinate file' contains
                                  protein coordinate and derived data for a
                                  single PDB file ('protein clean coordinate
                                  file') or a single domain from SCOP or CATH
                                  ('domain clean coordinate file'), in CCF
                                  format (EMBL-like). The files, generated by
                                  using PDBPARSE (PDB files) or DOMAINER
                                  (domains), contain 'cleaned-up' data that is
                                  self-consistent and error-corrected.
                                  Records for residue solvent accessibility
                                  and secondary structure are added to the
                                  file by using PDBPLUS. default: "./
   -mode               menu       This option specifies the mode of signature
                                  generation. In 'Full-length signature mode'
                                  (mode 1) a single signature incorporating
                                  all residue positions that contact the
                                  ligand plus intervening gaps is generated.
                                  In 'Patch signature mode' (mode 2) one or
                                  more signatures corresponding to 'patches'
                                  of residue positions are generated. A patch
                                  is a set of residues that are
                                  near-neighbours in sequence and is described
                                  by two user-defined parameters: minimum
                                  patch size and maximum gap distance.
   -type               menu       This option specifies the type of signature
                                  generated. In '1D (sequence) signature'
                                  sequence-based signatures are generated. In
                                  '3D (structural) signature' structure-based
                                  signatures are generated.
*  -patchsize          integer    This option specifies the minimum patch
                                  size. This is the minimum number of contact
                                  positions that must be incorporated in a
                                  signature.
*  -gapdistance        integer    This option specifies the maximum gap
                                  distance. This is the maximum allowable gap
                                  (residues) between two residue in a patch.
                                  If two contact residues are further than
                                  this distance apart in sequence, they would
                                  not belong to the same patch.
*  -environment        menu       This option specifies the environment
                                  definition. See matgen3d documentation for
                                  description of definitions.
   -wsiz               integer    This option specifies the window size. When
                                  a signature is aligned to a protein
                                  sequence, the permissible gaps between two
                                  signature positions is determined by the
                                  empirical gaps and the window size. The user
                                  is prompted for a window size that is used
                                  for every position in the signature. Likely
                                  this is not optimal. A future implementation
                                  will provide a range of methods for
                                  generating values of window size depending
                                  upon the alignment (window size is
                                  identified by the WSIZ record in the
                                  signature output file).
  [-sigoutdir]         outdir     This option specifies the location of
                                  signature files (output). A 'signature file'
                                  contains a sparse sequence signature
                                  suitable for use with the SIGSCAN and
                                  SIGSCANLIG programs. The files are generated
                                  by using SIGGEN and SIGGENLIG". default:
                                  "./
  [-logfile]           outfile    Name of siggenlig logfile

   Additional (Optional) qualifiers: (none)
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers: (none)
   Associated qualifiers:

   "-logfile" associated qualifiers
   -odirectory3        string     Output directory

   General qualifiers:
   -auto               boolean    Turn off prompts
   -stdout             boolean    Write standard output
   -filter             boolean    Read standard input, write standard output
   -options            boolean    Prompt for standard and additional values
   -debug              boolean    Write debug output to program.dbg
   -verbose            boolean    Report some/full command line options
   -help               boolean    Report command line options. More
                                  information on associated and general
                                  qualifiers can be found with -help -verbose
   -warning            boolean    Report warnings
   -error              boolean    Report errors
   -fatal              boolean    Report fatal errors
   -die                boolean    Report deaths

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers Allowed values Default
   [-confile]
   (Parameter 1) This option specifies the name of the CON file (contact
   file) (input). A 'contact file' contains contact data for a protein or
   a domain from SCOP or CATH, in the CON format (EMBL-like). The
   contacts may be intra-chain residue-residue, inter-chain
   residue-residue or residue-ligand. The files are generated by using
   CONTACTS, INTERFACE and SITES. Input file Required
   -ccfpdir This option specifies the location of protein CCF file (clean
   coordinate files) (input). A 'clean cordinate file' contains protein
   coordinate and derived data for a single PDB file ('protein clean
   coordinate file') or a single domain from SCOP or CATH ('domain clean
   coordinate file'), in CCF format (EMBL-like). The files, generated by
   using PDBPARSE (PDB files) or DOMAINER (domains), contain 'cleaned-up'
   data that is self-consistent and error-corrected. Records for residue
   solvent accessibility and secondary structure are added to the file by
   using PDBPLUS. default: "./ Directory
   -ccfddir This option specifies the location of protein CCF file (clean
   coordinate files) (input). A 'clean cordinate file' contains protein
   coordinate and derived data for a single PDB file ('protein clean
   coordinate file') or a single domain from SCOP or CATH ('domain clean
   coordinate file'), in CCF format (EMBL-like). The files, generated by
   using PDBPARSE (PDB files) or DOMAINER (domains), contain 'cleaned-up'
   data that is self-consistent and error-corrected. Records for residue
   solvent accessibility and secondary structure are added to the file by
   using PDBPLUS. default: "./ Directory
   -mode This option specifies the mode of signature generation. In
   'Full-length signature mode' (mode 1) a single signature incorporating
   all residue positions that contact the ligand plus intervening gaps is
   generated. In 'Patch signature mode' (mode 2) one or more signatures
   corresponding to 'patches' of residue positions are generated. A patch
   is a set of residues that are near-neighbours in sequence and is
   described by two user-defined parameters: minimum patch size and
   maximum gap distance.
   1 (Full-length signature mode)
   2 (Patch signature mode)
   1
   -type This option specifies the type of signature generated. In '1D
   (sequence) signature' sequence-based signatures are generated. In '3D
   (structural) signature' structure-based signatures are generated.
   1 (1D (sequence) signature)
   2 (3D (structural) signature)
   1
   -patchsize This option specifies the minimum patch size. This is the
   minimum number of contact positions that must be incorporated in a
   signature. Integer 3 or more 5
   -gapdistance This option specifies the maximum gap distance. This is
   the maximum allowable gap (residues) between two residue in a patch.
   If two contact residues are further than this distance apart in
   sequence, they would not belong to the same patch. Integer 0 or more 2
   -environment This option specifies the environment definition. See
   matgen3d documentation for description of definitions.
   1  (Env1)
   2  (Env2)
   3  (Env3)
   4  (Env4)
   5  (Env5)
   6  (Env6)
   7  (Env7)
   8  (Env8)
   9  (Env9)
   10 (Env10)
   11 (Env11)
   12 (Env12)
   13 (Env13)
   14 (Env14)
   15 (Env15)
   16 (Env16)
   1
   -wsiz This option specifies the window size. When a signature is
   aligned to a protein sequence, the permissible gaps between two
   signature positions is determined by the empirical gaps and the window
   size. The user is prompted for a window size that is used for every
   position in the signature. Likely this is not optimal. A future
   implementation will provide a range of methods for generating values
   of window size depending upon the alignment (window size is identified
   by the WSIZ record in the signature output file). Any integer value 0
   [-sigoutdir]
   (Parameter 2) This option specifies the location of signature files
   (output). A 'signature file' contains a sparse sequence signature
   suitable for use with the SIGSCAN and SIGSCANLIG programs. The files
   are generated by using SIGGEN and SIGGENLIG". default: "./ Output
   directory
   [-logfile]
   (Parameter 3) Name of siggenlig logfile Output file siggenlig.log
   Additional (Optional) qualifiers Allowed values Default
   (none)
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers Allowed values Default
   (none)

8.0 KNOWN BUGS & WARNINGS

9.0 NOTES

   None.

10.0 DESCRIPTION

11.0 ALGORITHM

12.0 RELATED APPLICATIONS

See also

   Program name                       Description
   contacts     Generate intra-chain CON files from CCF files
   domainalign  Generate alignments (DAF file) for nodes in a DCF file
   domainrep    Reorder DCF file to identify representative structures
   domainreso   Remove low resolution domains from a DCF file
   interface    Generate inter-chain CON files from CCF files
   libgen       Generate discriminating elements from alignments
   matgen3d     Generate a 3D-1D scoring matrix from CCF files
   psiphi       Phi and psi torsion angles from protein coordinates
   rocon        Generates a hits file from comparing two DHF files
   rocplot      Performs ROC analysis on hits files
   seqalign     Extend alignments (DAF file) with sequences (DHF file)
   seqfraggle   Removes fragment sequences from DHF files
   seqsearch    Generate PSI-BLAST hits (DHF file) from a DAF file
   seqsort      Remove ambiguous classified sequences from DHF files
   seqwords     Generates DHF files from keyword search of UniProt
   siggen       Generates a sparse protein signature from an alignment
   sigscan      Generate hits (DHF file) from a signature search
   sigscanlig   Search ligand-signature library & write hits (LHF file)

13.0 DIAGNOSTIC ERROR MESSAGES

   None.

14.0 AUTHORS

   Jon Ison (jison © hgmp.mrc.ac.uk)
   HGMP-RC, Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SB, UK

14.0 REFERENCES

   Please cite the authors and EMBOSS.
   Rice P, Longden I and Bleasby A (2000) "EMBOSS - The European
   Molecular Biology Open Software Suite" Trends in Genetics, 15:276-278.
   
   See also http://emboss.sourceforge.net/

  14.1 Other useful references
