
   [an error occurred while processing this directive]

sigscanlig documentation

   [an error occurred while processing this directive]

CONTENTS

   1.0 SUMMARY 
   2.0 INPUTS & OUTPUTS 
   3.0 INPUT FILE FORMAT 
   4.0 OUTPUT FILE FORMAT 
   5.0 DATA FILES 
   6.0 USAGE 
   7.0 COMMAND-LINE ARGUMENTS 
   8.0 KNOWN BUGS & WARNINGS 
   9.0 NOTES 
   10.0 DESCRIPTION 
   11.0 ALGORITHM 
   12.0 RELATED APPLICATIONS 
   13.0 DIAGNOSTIC ERROR MESSAGES 
   14.0 AUTHORS 
   15.0 REFERENCES 

1.0 SUMMARY

   Search ligand-signature library & write hits (LHF file)

   sigscanlig is a generic tool for

2.0 INPUTS & OUTPUTS

   sigscanlig reads a

3.0 INPUT FILE FORMAT

4.0 OUTPUT FILE FORMAT

5.0 DATA FILES

   sigscanlig does not use a data file.

6.0 USAGE

7.0 COMMAND-LINE ARGUMENTS

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers:
  [-siginfiles]        dirlist    This option specifies the directory of
                                  signature files (input). A 'signature file'
                                  contains a sparse sequence signature
                                  suitable for use with the SIGSCAN and
                                  SIGSCANLIG programs. The files are generated
                                  by using SIGGEN and SIGGENLIG.
  [-dbsequences]       seqall     This option specifies the name of the
                                  database of query sequences.
   -sub                matrixf    This option specifies the scoring matrix to
                                  use, e.g. residue substitution matrix (1D
                                  signatures) or matrix of 3D:1D
                                  (environment:residue) scores (3D).
   -mode               menu       This option specifies the mode of scoring
                                  ligands. In 'Patch Score Mode' (mode 1) the
                                  score for a ligand is the mean of its patch
                                  scores. In 'Site Score Mode' the score for a
                                  ligand is the mean of its site scores. A
                                  site score is the mean of patch score for
                                  all patches for a given site.
   -gapo               float      This option specifies the gap insertion
                                  penalty. The gap insertion penalty is the
                                  score taken away when a gap is created. The
                                  best value depends on the choice of
                                  comparison matrix. The default value assumes
                                  you are using the EBLOSUM62 matrix for
                                  protein sequences, and the EDNAMAT matrix
                                  for nucleotide sequences.
   -gape               float      This option specifies the gap extension
                                  penalty. The gap extension penalty is added
                                  to the standard gap penalty for each base or
                                  residue in the gap. This is how long gaps
                                  are penalized. Usually you will expect a few
                                  long gaps rather than many short gaps, so
                                  the gap extension penalty should be lower
                                  than the gap penalty.
   -nterm              menu       This option specifies the N-terminal
                                  matching option. This determines how the
                                  first signature position is aligned to a
                                  sequence from the database.
  [-hitsdir]           outdir     This option specifies the directory of the
                                  LHF files (ligand hits files) (output). A
                                  'ligand hits file' contains database hits
                                  (sequences) with ligand classification
                                  information, in the LHF format (FASTA-like).
                                  The hits are putative ligand-binding
                                  sequences and are found from a search of a
                                  sequence database, in this case, by using
                                  SIGSCANLIG.
  [-aligndir]          outdir     This option specifies the name of the SAF
                                  (signature alignment file) (output).A
                                  'signature alignment file' contains one or
                                  more signnature-sequence alignments. The
                                  file is in DAF format (CLUSTAL-like) and is
                                  annotated with bibliographic information,
                                  either the domain family classification (for
                                  SIGSCAN output) or ligand classification
                                  (for SIGSCANLIG output). The files generated
                                  by SIGSCAN will contain a
                                  signature-sequence alignment for a single
                                  signature against a library of one or more
                                  sequences. The files generated by using
                                  SIGSCANLIG will contain a signature-sequence
                                  alignment for a single query sequence
                                  against a library of one or more signatures.
  [-resultsdir]        outdir     This option specifies the directory for the
                                  results files. A results file is generated
                                  for each query sequence and contains a list
                                  of hits (ligands), rank-ordered on the basis
                                  of score.

   Additional (Optional) qualifiers (* if not always prompted):
   -nhits              integer    This option specifies the maximum number of
                                  hits to output.
   -domax              toggle     This option specifies whether to consider a
                                  max. number of top-scoring hits only for
                                  each ligand.
*  -maxhits            integer    This option specifies the maximum number of
                                  top-scoring hits to consider for each
                                  ligand.

   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers: (none)
   Associated qualifiers:

   "-dbsequences" associated qualifiers
   -sbegin2            integer    Start of each sequence to be used
   -send2              integer    End of each sequence to be used
   -sreverse2          boolean    Reverse (if DNA)
   -sask2              boolean    Ask for begin/end/reverse
   -snucleotide2       boolean    Sequence is nucleotide
   -sprotein2          boolean    Sequence is protein
   -slower2            boolean    Make lower case
   -supper2            boolean    Make upper case
   -sformat2           string     Input sequence format
   -sdbname2           string     Database name
   -sid2               string     Entryname
   -ufo2               string     UFO features
   -fformat2           string     Features format
   -fopenfile2         string     Features file name

   General qualifiers:
   -auto               boolean    Turn off prompts
   -stdout             boolean    Write standard output
   -filter             boolean    Read standard input, write standard output
   -options            boolean    Prompt for standard and additional values
   -debug              boolean    Write debug output to program.dbg
   -verbose            boolean    Report some/full command line options
   -help               boolean    Report command line options. More
                                  information on associated and general
                                  qualifiers can be found with -help -verbose
   -warning            boolean    Report warnings
   -error              boolean    Report errors
   -fatal              boolean    Report fatal errors
   -die                boolean    Report deaths

   Standard (Mandatory) qualifiers Allowed values Default
   [-siginfiles]
   (Parameter 1) This option specifies the directory of signature files
   (input). A 'signature file' contains a sparse sequence signature
   suitable for use with the SIGSCAN and SIGSCANLIG programs. The files
   are generated by using SIGGEN and SIGGENLIG. Directory with files ./
   [-dbsequences]
   (Parameter 2) This option specifies the name of the database of query
   sequences. Readable sequence(s) Required
   -sub This option specifies the scoring matrix to use, e.g. residue
   substitution matrix (1D signatures) or matrix of 3D:1D
   (environment:residue) scores (3D). Comparison matrix file in EMBOSS
   data path EBLOSUM62
   -mode This option specifies the mode of scoring ligands. In 'Patch
   Score Mode' (mode 1) the score for a ligand is the mean of its patch
   scores. In 'Site Score Mode' the score for a ligand is the mean of its
   site scores. A site score is the mean of patch score for all patches
   for a given site.
   1 (Patch score mode)
   2 (Site score mode)
   1
   -gapo This option specifies the gap insertion penalty. The gap
   insertion penalty is the score taken away when a gap is created. The
   best value depends on the choice of comparison matrix. The default
   value assumes you are using the EBLOSUM62 matrix for protein
   sequences, and the EDNAMAT matrix for nucleotide sequences. Floating
   point number from 1.0 to 100.0 10.0 for any sequence
   -gape This option specifies the gap extension penalty. The gap
   extension penalty is added to the standard gap penalty for each base
   or residue in the gap. This is how long gaps are penalized. Usually
   you will expect a few long gaps rather than many short gaps, so the
   gap extension penalty should be lower than the gap penalty. Floating
   point number from 0.0 to 10.0 0.5 for any sequence
   -nterm This option specifies the N-terminal matching option. This
   determines how the first signature position is aligned to a sequence
   from the database.
   1 (Align anywhere and allow only complete signature-sequence fit)
   2 (Align anywhere and allow partial signature-sequence fit)
   3 (Use empirical gaps only)
   1
   [-hitsdir]
   (Parameter 3) This option specifies the directory of the LHF files
   (ligand hits files) (output). A 'ligand hits file' contains database
   hits (sequences) with ligand classification information, in the LHF
   format (FASTA-like). The hits are putative ligand-binding sequences
   and are found from a search of a sequence database, in this case, by
   using SIGSCANLIG. Output directory ./
   [-aligndir]
   (Parameter 4) This option specifies the name of the SAF (signature
   alignment file) (output).A 'signature alignment file' contains one or
   more signnature-sequence alignments. The file is in DAF format
   (CLUSTAL-like) and is annotated with bibliographic information, either
   the domain family classification (for SIGSCAN output) or ligand
   classification (for SIGSCANLIG output). The files generated by SIGSCAN
   will contain a signature-sequence alignment for a single signature
   against a library of one or more sequences. The files generated by
   using SIGSCANLIG will contain a signature-sequence alignment for a
   single query sequence against a library of one or more signatures.
   Output directory ./
   [-resultsdir]
   (Parameter 5) This option specifies the directory for the results
   files. A results file is generated for each query sequence and
   contains a list of hits (ligands), rank-ordered on the basis of score.
   Output directory ./
   Additional (Optional) qualifiers Allowed values Default
   -nhits This option specifies the maximum number of hits to output. Any
   integer value 100
   -domax This option specifies whether to consider a max. number of
   top-scoring hits only for each ligand. Toggle value Yes/No No
   -maxhits This option specifies the maximum number of top-scoring hits
   to consider for each ligand. Any integer value 0
   Advanced (Unprompted) qualifiers Allowed values Default
   (none)

8.0 KNOWN BUGS & WARNINGS

9.0 NOTES

   None.

10.0 DESCRIPTION

11.0 ALGORITHM

12.0 RELATED APPLICATIONS

See also

   Program name                      Description
   contactcount Count specific versus non-specific contacts
   contacts     Generate intra-chain CON files from CCF files
   domainalign  Generate alignments (DAF file) for nodes in a DCF file
   domainrep    Reorder DCF file to identify representative structures
   domainreso   Remove low resolution domains from a DCF file
   interface    Generate inter-chain CON files from CCF files
   libgen       Generate discriminating elements from alignments
   matgen3d     Generate a 3D-1D scoring matrix from CCF files
   psiphi       Phi and psi torsion angles from protein coordinates
   rocon        Generates a hits file from comparing two DHF files
   rocplot      Performs ROC analysis on hits files
   scorecmapdir Contact scores for cleaned protein chain contact files
   seqalign     Extend alignments (DAF file) with sequences (DHF file)
   seqfraggle   Removes fragment sequences from DHF files
   seqsearch    Generate PSI-BLAST hits (DHF file) from a DAF file
   seqsort      Remove ambiguous classified sequences from DHF files
   seqwords     Generates DHF files from keyword search of UniProt
   siggen       Generates a sparse protein signature from an alignment
   siggenlig    Generate ligand-binding signatures from a CON file
   sigscan      Generate hits (DHF file) from a signature search

13.0 DIAGNOSTIC ERROR MESSAGES

   None.

14.0 AUTHORS

   Jon Ison (jison © hgmp.mrc.ac.uk)
   HGMP-RC, Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SB, UK

14.0 REFERENCES

   Please cite the authors and EMBOSS.
   Rice P, Longden I and Bleasby A (2000) "EMBOSS - The European
   Molecular Biology Open Software Suite" Trends in Genetics, 15:276-278.
   
   See also http://emboss.sourceforge.net/

  14.1 Other useful references
