
                                   sirna 
                                      
   
   
Function

   Finds siRNA duplexes in mRNA
   
Description

   RNA interference, or RNAi, is a phenomenon in which double stranded
   RNA (dsRNA) effects silencing of the expression of genes that are
   highly homologous to either of the RNA strands in the duplex. Gene
   silencing in RNAi results from the degradation of mRNA sequences, and
   the effect has been used to determine the function of many genes in
   Drosophilia, C. elegans, and many plant species.
   
   The duration of knockdown by siRNA can typically last for 7-10 days,
   and has been shown to transfer to daughter cells. Of further note,
   siRNAs are effective at quantities much lower than alternative gene
   silencing methodologies, including antisense and ribozyme based
   strategies.
   
   Due to various mechanisms of antiviral response to long dsRNA, RNAi at
   first proved more difficult to establish in mammalian species. Then,
   Tuschl, Elbashir, and others discovered that RNAi can be elicited very
   effectively by well-defined 21-base duplex RNAs. When these small
   interfering RNA, or siRNA, are added in duplex form with a
   transfection agent to mammalian cell cultures, the 21-base-pair RNA
   acts in concert with cellular components to silence the gene with
   sequence homology to one of the siRNA sequences. Strategies for the
   design of effective siRNA sequences have been recently documented,
   most notably by Sayda Elbashir, Thomas Tuschl, et al.
   
   Their studies of mammalian RNAi suggest that the most efficient
   gene-silencing effect is achieved using double-stranded siRNA having a
   19-nucleotide complementary region and a 2-nucleotide 3' overhang at
   each end. Current models of the RNAi mechanism suggest that the
   antisense siRNA strand recognizes the specific gene target.
   
   In gene-specific RNAi, the coding region (CDS) of the mRNA is usually
   targeted. The search for an appropriate target sequence should begin
   50-100 nucleotides downstream of the start codon. UTR-binding proteins
   and/or translation initiation complexes may interfere with the binding
   of the siRNP endonuclease complex. Tuschl, Elbashir et al. say that
   they have successfully used siRNAs targetting the 3' UTR. To avoid
   interference from mRNA regulatory proteins, sequences in the 5'
   untranslated region or near the start codon should not be targeted.
   
   A set of rules for the design of siRNA has been suggested
   http://www.mpibpc.gwdg.de/abteilungen/100/105/sirna.html based on the
   work of Tuschl, Elbashir et al.
   
   They suggest searching for 23-nt sequence motif AA(N19)TT (N, any
   nucleotide) and select hits with approx. 50% G/C-content (30% to 70%
   has also worked in for them). If no suitable sequences are found, the
   search is extended using the motif NA(N21). The sequence of the sense
   siRNA corresponds to (N19)TT or N21 (position 3 to 23 of the 23-nt
   motif), respectively. In the latter case, they convert the 3' end of
   the sense siRNA to TT.
   
   The rationale for this sequence conversion is to generate a symmetric
   duplex with respect to the sequence composition of the sense and
   antisense 3' overhangs. The antisense siRNA is synthesized as the
   complement to position 1 to 21 of the 23-nt motif. Because position 1
   of the 23-nt motif is not recognized sequence-specifically by the
   antisense siRNA, the 3'-most nucleotide residue of the antisense
   siRNA, can be chosen deliberately. However, the penultimate nucleotide
   of the antisense siRNA (complementary to position 2 of the 23-nt
   motif) should always be complementary to the targeted sequence. For
   simplifying chemical synthesis, they always use TT.
   
   More recently, they preferentially select siRNAs corresponding to the
   target motif NAR(N17)YNN, where R is purine (A, G) and Y is pyrimidine
   (C, U). The respective 21-nt sense and antisense siRNAs therefore
   begin with a purine nucleotide and can also be expressed from pol III
   expression vectors without a change in targeting site; expression of
   RNAs from pol III promoters is only efficient when the first
   transcribed nucleotide is a purine.
   
   They always design siRNAs with symmetric 3' TT overhangs, believing
   that symmetric 3' overhangs help to ensure that the siRNPs are formed
   with approximately equal ratios of sense and antisense target
   RNA-cleaving siRNPs Please note that the modification of the overhang
   of the sense sequence of the siRNA duplex is not expected to affect
   targeted mRNA recognition, as the antisense siRNA strand guides target
   recognition. In summary, no matter what you do to your overhangs,
   siRNAs should still function to a reasonable extent. However, using TT
   in the 3' overhang will always help your RNA synthesis company to let
   you know when you accidentally order a siRNA sequences 3' to 5' rather
   than in the recommended format of 5' to 3'.
   
   sirna reports both the sense and antisense siRNAs as 5' to 3'.
   
   Xeragon.com also suggest that choosing a 21 nt region of the mRNA with
   a GC content as close as possible to 50% is a more important
   consideration than choosing a target sequence that begins with AA.
   They also suggest that a key consideration in target selection is to
   avoid having more than three guanosines in a row, since poly G
   sequences can hyperstack and form agglomerates that potentially
   interfere with the siRNA silencing mechanism.
   
   siRNAs appear to effectively silence genes in more than 80% of cases.
   Current data indicate that there are regions of some mRNAs where gene
   silencing does not work. To help ensure that a given target gene is
   silenced, it is advised that at least two target sequences as far
   apart on the gene as possible be chosen.
   
   mRNA secondary structure does not appear to have a significant effect
   on gene silencing.
   
   sirna looks at the feature table of the input mRNA sequence to find
   the coding regions (CDS). It will ignore the 5' UTR and the first 50
   bases of the CDS. It will assign a penalty of 2 points to any siRNA in
   positions 51 to 100 in the CDS. If there is no CDS in the feature
   table, you can specify the CDS by using the command-line qualifier
   '-sbegin' to indicate where the CDS should start. If there is no CDS
   in the feature table and you do not use the command-line qualifier
   '-sbegin', then sirna will assume that the CDS region is not known and
   will look for siRNAs in the whole of the sequence with no penalties.
   
Usage

   [an error occurred while processing this directive]
   
Command line arguments

   Mandatory qualifiers:
  [-sequence]          seqall     Sequence database USA
  [-outfile]           report     Output data file

   Optional qualifiers:
   -[no]poliii         boolean    This option allows you to select the 21 base
                                  probes that start with a purine and so can
                                  be expressed from Pol III expression
                                  vectors.
   -aa                 boolean    This option allows you to select the 23 base
                                  regions that start with AA.

   Advanced qualifiers: (none)
   General qualifiers:
  -help                boolean    Report command line options. More
                                  information on associated and general
                                  qualifiers can be found with -help -verbose
   

   Mandatory qualifiers Allowed values Default
   [-sequence]
   (Parameter 1) Sequence database USA Readable sequence(s) Required
   [-outfile]
   (Parameter 2) Output data file Report output file
   Optional qualifiers Allowed values Default
   -[no]poliii This option allows you to select the 21 base probes that
   start with a purine and so can be expressed from Pol III expression
   vectors. Boolean value Yes/No Yes
   -aa This option allows you to select the 23 base regions that start
   with AA. Boolean value Yes/No No
   Advanced qualifiers Allowed values Default
   (none)
   
Input file format

   sirna reads any normal sequence USAs.
   
   [an error occurred while processing this directive]
   
Output file format

   The output is a standard EMBOSS report file.
   
   The results can be output in one of several styles by using the
   command-line qualifier -rformat xxx, where 'xxx' is replaced by the
   name of the required format. The available format names are: embl,
   genbank, gff, pir, swiss, trace, listfile, dbmotif, diffseq, excel,
   feattable, motif, regions, seqtable, simple, srs, table, tagseq
   
   See:
   http://www.uk.embnet.org/Software/EMBOSS/Themes/ReportFormats.html for
   further information on report formats.
   
   sirna outputs a report format file. The default format is 'table'
   
   [an error occurred while processing this directive]
   
   The siRNAs are reported in order of best score first.
   
   sirna reports both the sense and antisense siRNAs as 5' to 3'.
   
Data files

   None.
   
Notes

   None.
   
References

    1. Elbashir, S. M., et al. (2001a). Duplexes of 21-nucleotide RNAs
       mediate RNA interference in mammalian cell culture. Nature 411:
       494-498.
    2. Elbashir, S. M., W. Lendeckel and T. Tuschl (2001b). RNA
       interference is mediated by 21 and 22 nt RNAs. Genes & Dev. 15:
       188-200.
       
Warnings

   It is assumed that the input sequence is mRNA.
   
Diagnostic Error Messages

   None.
   
Exit status

   It always exits with status 0.
   
Known bugs

   None.
   
See also

   Program name                          Description
   banana       Bending and curvature plot in B-DNA
   btwisted     Calculates the twisting in a B-DNA sequence
   chaos        Create a chaos game representation plot for a sequence
   compseq      Counts the composition of dimer/trimer/etc words in a sequence
   dan          Calculates DNA RNA/DNA melting temperature
   freak        Residue/base frequency table or plot
   isochore     Plots isochores in large DNA sequences
   wordcount    Counts words of a specified size in a DNA sequence
   
Author(s)

   This application was written by Gary Williams
   (gwilliam@hgmp.mrc.ac.uk)
   
History

   Written (November 2002) - Gary Williams.
   
Target users

   This program is intended to be used by everyone and everything, from
   naive users to embedded scripts.
   
Comments
